# Reference
<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

**Classes**

* [`ssh`](#ssh): Configures and manages SSH on a Linux host
* [`ssh::config`](#sshconfig): Manages the configuration files for the SSH service
* [`ssh::install`](#sshinstall): A short summary of the purpose of this class
* [`ssh::service`](#sshservice): Manages the state of the SSH service

## Classes

### ssh

The ssh class is responsible for installing and configuring the Secure Shell service on a Linux server.

* **See also**
https://www.unix.com/man-page/centos/1/ssh/

#### Examples

##### Basic Usage

```puppet
class { 'ssh':
  ssh_service_enable       => true,
  ssh_service_ensure       => 'running',
  ssh_config_x11forwarding => 'no',
  ssh_config_print_motd    => 'yes',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `ssh` class.

##### `ssh_service_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines if the service should start with the system boot.
true will start the autofs service on boot.
false will not start the autofs service on boot.

##### `ssh_service_ensure`

Data type: `Enum['running', 'stopped']`

Determines state of the service. Can be set to: running or stopped.

##### `ssh_config_x11forwarding`

Data type: `Enum['yes', 'no']`

Toggle whether X11 forwarding is allowed or not.

##### `ssh_config_print_motd`

Data type: `Enum['yes', 'no']`

Toggle whether the MOTD gets printed at login

##### `ssh_config_print_banner`

Data type: `String[1]`

Toggle whether banner text should be displayed before a user authenticates

##### `ssh_config_banner_content`

Data type: `String[1]`

The contents of what will be /etc/banner (this is a file or template)

##### `ssh_config_banner_path`

Data type: `String[1]`

Location of the banner message

##### `ssh_config_use_dns`

Data type: `Enum['yes', 'no']`

Should only be set to yes if your doing host bases authentication.

##### `ssh_config_strictmodes`

Data type: `Enum['yes', 'no']`

Toggle whether ssh should check for file modes and ownership before accepting login requests

##### `ssh_config_permitrootlogin`

Data type: `Enum['yes', 'no', 'without-password']`

Determine if direct root login is allowed or not

##### `ssh_package_server`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the openssh server package.

##### `ssh_package_client`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the openssh client package.

### ssh::config

The ssh::config class is resposible for the configuration files required by ssh.

### ssh::install

A description of what this class does

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
include ssh::install
```

### ssh::service

A description of what this class does

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
include ssh::service
```

